[
    {
        "question": "Is this program ready to be properly used?"
    },
    {
        "fix": null,
        "0": null,
        "pseq": "36",
        "1": "36",
        "bseq": "5",
        "2": "5",
        "binary": "000101",
        "3": "000101",
        "title": " Ming I ",
        "4": " Ming I ",
        "trans": " Darkening of the light",
        "5": " Darkening of the light",
        "trigrams": "above K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH below LI THE CLINGING, FIRE",
        "6": "above K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH below LI THE CLINGING, FIRE",
        "tri_upper": "K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH",
        "7": "K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH",
        "tri_lower": "LI THE CLINGING, FIRE",
        "8": "LI THE CLINGING, FIRE",
        "explanation": "Here the sun has sunk under the earth and is therefore darkened. The name ofthe hexagram means literally \"wounding of the bright\"; hence the individuallines contain frequent references to wounding. The situation is the exactopposite of that in the foregoing hexagram. In the latter a wise man at thehead of affairs has able helpers, and in company with them makes progress;here a man of dark nature is in a position of authority and brings harm to thewise and able man.",
        "9": "Here the sun has sunk under the earth and is therefore darkened. The name ofthe hexagram means literally \"wounding of the bright\"; hence the individuallines contain frequent references to wounding. The situation is the exactopposite of that in the foregoing hexagram. In the latter a wise man at thehead of affairs has able helpers, and in company with them makes progress;here a man of dark nature is in a position of authority and brings harm to thewise and able man.",
        "judge_old": "DARKENING OF THE LIGHT. In adversity It furthers one to be persevering.",
        "10": "DARKENING OF THE LIGHT. In adversity It furthers one to be persevering.",
        "judge_exp": "One must not unresistingly let himself be swept along by unfavorablecircumstances, nor permit his steadfastness to be shaken. He can avoid this bymaintaining his inner light, while remaining outwardly yielding and tractable.With this attitude he can overcome even the greatest adversities. In somesituations indeed a man must hide his light, in order to make his will prevailinspite of difficulties in his immediate environment. Perseverance must dwellin inmost consciousness and should not be discernible from without. Only thusis a man able to maintain his will in the face of difficulties.",
        "11": "One must not unresistingly let himself be swept along by unfavorablecircumstances, nor permit his steadfastness to be shaken. He can avoid this bymaintaining his inner light, while remaining outwardly yielding and tractable.With this attitude he can overcome even the greatest adversities. In somesituations indeed a man must hide his light, in order to make his will prevailinspite of difficulties in his immediate environment. Perseverance must dwellin inmost consciousness and should not be discernible from without. Only thusis a man able to maintain his will in the face of difficulties.",
        "image_old": "The light has sunk into the earth: The image of DARKENING OF THE LIGHT. Thus does the superior man live with the great mass: He veils his light, yet still shines.",
        "12": "The light has sunk into the earth: The image of DARKENING OF THE LIGHT. Thus does the superior man live with the great mass: He veils his light, yet still shines.",
        "image_exp": "In a time of darkness it is essential to be cautious and reserved. Oneshould not needlessly awaken overwhelming enmity by inconsiderate behavior. Insuch times one ought not to fall in with the practices of others; neithershould one drag them censoriously into the light. In social intercourse oneshould not try to be all-knowing. One should let many things pass, withoutbeing duped.",
        "13": "In a time of darkness it is essential to be cautious and reserved. Oneshould not needlessly awaken overwhelming enmity by inconsiderate behavior. Insuch times one ought not to fall in with the practices of others; neithershould one drag them censoriously into the light. In social intercourse oneshould not try to be all-knowing. One should let many things pass, withoutbeing duped.",
        "line_1": "Nine at the beginning means:",
        "14": "Nine at the beginning means:",
        "line_1_org": "Darkening of the light during flight. He lowers his wings. The superior man does not eat for three days On his wanderings. But he has somewhere to go.The host has occasion to gossip about him.",
        "15": "Darkening of the light during flight. He lowers his wings. The superior man does not eat for three days On his wanderings. But he has somewhere to go.The host has occasion to gossip about him.",
        "line_1_exp": "With grandiose resolve a man endeavors to soar above all obstacles, but thusencounters a hostile fate. He retreats and evades the issue. The time is difficult. Without rest, he must hurry along, with no permanent abiding place.If he does not want to make compromises within himself, but insists onremaining true to his principles, he suffers deprivation. Never the less hehas a fixed goal to strive for even though the people with whom he lives donot understand him and speak ill of him.",
        "16": "With grandiose resolve a man endeavors to soar above all obstacles, but thusencounters a hostile fate. He retreats and evades the issue. The time is difficult. Without rest, he must hurry along, with no permanent abiding place.If he does not want to make compromises within himself, but insists onremaining true to his principles, he suffers deprivation. Never the less hehas a fixed goal to strive for even though the people with whom he lives donot understand him and speak ill of him.",
        "line_2": "Six in the second place means:",
        "17": "Six in the second place means:",
        "line_2_org": "Darkening of the light injures him in the left thigh. He gives aid with the strength of a horse. Good fortune.",
        "18": "Darkening of the light injures him in the left thigh. He gives aid with the strength of a horse. Good fortune.",
        "line_2_exp": "Here the Lord of Light is in a subordinate place and is wounded by the Lordof Darkness. But the injury is not fatal; it is only a hindrance. Rescue isstill possible. The wounded man gives no thought to himself; he thinks only ofsaving the others who are also in danger. Therefore he tries with all hisstrength to save all that can be saved. There is good fortune in thus actingaccording to duty.",
        "19": "Here the Lord of Light is in a subordinate place and is wounded by the Lordof Darkness. But the injury is not fatal; it is only a hindrance. Rescue isstill possible. The wounded man gives no thought to himself; he thinks only ofsaving the others who are also in danger. Therefore he tries with all hisstrength to save all that can be saved. There is good fortune in thus actingaccording to duty.",
        "line_3": "Nine in the third place means:",
        "20": "Nine in the third place means:",
        "line_3_org": "Darkening of the light during the hunt in the south. Their great leader is captured. One must not expect perseverance too soon.",
        "21": "Darkening of the light during the hunt in the south. Their great leader is captured. One must not expect perseverance too soon.",
        "line_3_exp": "It seems as if chance were at work. While the strong, loyal man is strivingeagerly and in good faith to create order, he meets the ringleader of thedisorder, as if by accident, and seizes him. Thus victory is achieved. But inabolishing abuses one must not be too hasty. This would turn out badly becausethe abuses have been in existence so long.",
        "22": "It seems as if chance were at work. While the strong, loyal man is strivingeagerly and in good faith to create order, he meets the ringleader of thedisorder, as if by accident, and seizes him. Thus victory is achieved. But inabolishing abuses one must not be too hasty. This would turn out badly becausethe abuses have been in existence so long.",
        "line_4": "Six in the fourth place means:",
        "23": "Six in the fourth place means:",
        "line_4_org": "He penetrates the left side of the belly. One gets at the very heart of the darkening of the light.",
        "24": "He penetrates the left side of the belly. One gets at the very heart of the darkening of the light.",
        "line_4_exp": "We find ourselves close to the commander of darkness and so discover his motsecret thoughts. In this way we realize that there is no longer any hope ofimprovement, and thus we are enabled to leave the scene of disaster before thestorm breaks.",
        "25": "We find ourselves close to the commander of darkness and so discover his motsecret thoughts. In this way we realize that there is no longer any hope ofimprovement, and thus we are enabled to leave the scene of disaster before thestorm breaks.",
        "line_5": "Six in the fifth place means:",
        "26": "Six in the fifth place means:",
        "line_5_org": "Darkening of the light as with Prince Chi. Perseverance furthers.",
        "27": "Darkening of the light as with Prince Chi. Perseverance furthers.",
        "line_5_exp": "Prince Chi lived at the court of the evil tyrant Chou Hsin, who, althoughnot mentioned by name, furnished the historical example on which this wholesituation is based. Prince Chi was a relative of the tyrant and could notwithdraw from the court; therefore he concealed his true sentiments andfeigned insanity. Although he was held a slave, he did not allow externalmisery to deflect him from his convictions. This provides a teaching for thosewho cannot leave their posts in times of darkness. In order to escape danger,they need invincible perseverance of spirit and redoubled caution in theirdealings with the world.",
        "28": "Prince Chi lived at the court of the evil tyrant Chou Hsin, who, althoughnot mentioned by name, furnished the historical example on which this wholesituation is based. Prince Chi was a relative of the tyrant and could notwithdraw from the court; therefore he concealed his true sentiments andfeigned insanity. Although he was held a slave, he did not allow externalmisery to deflect him from his convictions. This provides a teaching for thosewho cannot leave their posts in times of darkness. In order to escape danger,they need invincible perseverance of spirit and redoubled caution in theirdealings with the world.",
        "line_6": "Six at the top means:",
        "29": "Six at the top means:",
        "line_6_org": "Not light but darkness. First he climbed up to heaven, Then plunged into the depths of the earth.",
        "30": "Not light but darkness. First he climbed up to heaven, Then plunged into the depths of the earth.",
        "line_6_exp": "Here the climax of the darkening is reached. The dark power at first held sohigh a place that it could wound all who were on the side of good and of thelight. But in the end it perishes of its own darkness, for evil must itselffall at the very moment when it has wholly overcome the good, and thusconsumed the energy to which it owed its duration.",
        "31": "Here the climax of the darkening is reached. The dark power at first held sohigh a place that it could wound all who were on the side of good and of thelight. But in the end it perishes of its own darkness, for evil must itselffall at the very moment when it has wholly overcome the good, and thusconsumed the energy to which it owed its duration."
    },
    [
        0,
        1,
        0,
        0,
        0,
        0
    ],
    {
        "fix": null,
        "0": null,
        "pseq": "11",
        "1": "11",
        "bseq": "7",
        "2": "7",
        "binary": "000111",
        "3": "000111",
        "title": " T'ai ",
        "4": " T'ai ",
        "trans": " Peace",
        "5": " Peace",
        "trigrams": "above K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH below CH'IEN THE CREATIVE, HEAVEN",
        "6": "above K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH below CH'IEN THE CREATIVE, HEAVEN",
        "tri_upper": "K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH",
        "7": "K'UN THE RECEPTIVE, EARTH",
        "tri_lower": "CH'IEN THE CREATIVE, HEAVEN",
        "8": "CH'IEN THE CREATIVE, HEAVEN",
        "explanation": "The Receptive, which moves downward, stands above; the Creative, which movesupward, is below. Hence their influences meet and are in harmony, so that allliving things bloom and prosper. This hexagram belongs to the first month(February-March), at which time the forces of nature prepare the new spring.",
        "9": "The Receptive, which moves downward, stands above; the Creative, which movesupward, is below. Hence their influences meet and are in harmony, so that allliving things bloom and prosper. This hexagram belongs to the first month(February-March), at which time the forces of nature prepare the new spring.",
        "judge_old": "PEACE. The small departs, The great approaches. Good fortune. Success.",
        "10": "PEACE. The small departs, The great approaches. Good fortune. Success.",
        "judge_exp": "This hexagram denotes a time in nature when heaven seems to be on earth.Heaven has placed itself beneath the earth, and so their powers unite in deepharmony. Then peace and blessing descend upon all living things. In the worldof man it is a time of social harmony; those in high places show favor to thelowly, and the lowly and inferior is an end to all feuds. In side, at thecenter, in the key position, is the light principle; the dark principle isoutside. Thus the light has a powerful influence, while the dark issubmissive. In this way each receives its due. When the good elements ofsociety occupy a central position and are in control, the evil elements comeunder their influence and change for the better. When the spirit of heavenrules in man, his animal nature also comes under its influence and takes itsappropriate place. The individual lines enter the hexagram from below andleave it again at the top. Here the small, weak, and evil elements are aboutto take their departure, while the great, strong, and good elements are movingup. This brings good fortune and success.",
        "11": "This hexagram denotes a time in nature when heaven seems to be on earth.Heaven has placed itself beneath the earth, and so their powers unite in deepharmony. Then peace and blessing descend upon all living things. In the worldof man it is a time of social harmony; those in high places show favor to thelowly, and the lowly and inferior is an end to all feuds. In side, at thecenter, in the key position, is the light principle; the dark principle isoutside. Thus the light has a powerful influence, while the dark issubmissive. In this way each receives its due. When the good elements ofsociety occupy a central position and are in control, the evil elements comeunder their influence and change for the better. When the spirit of heavenrules in man, his animal nature also comes under its influence and takes itsappropriate place. The individual lines enter the hexagram from below andleave it again at the top. Here the small, weak, and evil elements are aboutto take their departure, while the great, strong, and good elements are movingup. This brings good fortune and success.",
        "image_old": "Heaven and earth unite: the image of PEACE. Thus the ruler Divides and completes the course of heaven and earth, And so aids the people.",
        "12": "Heaven and earth unite: the image of PEACE. Thus the ruler Divides and completes the course of heaven and earth, And so aids the people.",
        "image_exp": "Heaven and earth are in contact and combine their influences, producing atime of universal flowering and prosperity. This stream of energy must beregulated by the ruler of men. It is done by a process of division. Thus mendivide the uniform flow of time into the seasons, according to the successionof natural phenomena, and mark off infinite space by the points of thecompass. In this way nature in its overwhelming profusion of phenomena isbounded and controlled. One the other hand, nature must be furthered in herproductiveness. This is done by adjusting the products to the right time andthe right place, which increases the natural yield. This controlling andfurthering activity of man in his relation to nature is the work on naturethat rewards him.",
        "13": "Heaven and earth are in contact and combine their influences, producing atime of universal flowering and prosperity. This stream of energy must beregulated by the ruler of men. It is done by a process of division. Thus mendivide the uniform flow of time into the seasons, according to the successionof natural phenomena, and mark off infinite space by the points of thecompass. In this way nature in its overwhelming profusion of phenomena isbounded and controlled. One the other hand, nature must be furthered in herproductiveness. This is done by adjusting the products to the right time andthe right place, which increases the natural yield. This controlling andfurthering activity of man in his relation to nature is the work on naturethat rewards him.",
        "line_1": "Nine at the beginning means:",
        "14": "Nine at the beginning means:",
        "line_1_org": "When ribbon grass is pulled up, the sod comes with it. Each according to his kind. Undertakings bring good fortune.",
        "15": "When ribbon grass is pulled up, the sod comes with it. Each according to his kind. Undertakings bring good fortune.",
        "line_1_exp": "In times of prosperity every able man called to fill an office draws likeminded people along with him, just as in pulling up ribbon grass one alwayspulls up a bunch of it, because the stalks are connected by their roots. Insuch times, when it is possible to extend influence widely, the mind of anable man is set upon going out into life and accomplishing something.",
        "16": "In times of prosperity every able man called to fill an office draws likeminded people along with him, just as in pulling up ribbon grass one alwayspulls up a bunch of it, because the stalks are connected by their roots. Insuch times, when it is possible to extend influence widely, the mind of anable man is set upon going out into life and accomplishing something.",
        "line_2": "Nine in the second place means:",
        "17": "Nine in the second place means:",
        "line_2_org": "Bearing with the uncultured in gentleness, Fording the river with resolution, Not neglecting what is distant, Not regarding one's companions: Thus one may manage to walk in the middle.",
        "18": "Bearing with the uncultured in gentleness, Fording the river with resolution, Not neglecting what is distant, Not regarding one's companions: Thus one may manage to walk in the middle.",
        "line_2_exp": "In times of prosperity it is important and above all to possess enoughgreatness of soul to bear with imperfect people. For in the hands of a greatmaster no material is unproductive; he can find use for everything. But thisgenerosity is by no means laxity or weakness. It is during times of prosperityespecially that we must always be ready to risk even dangerous undertakings,such as the crossing of a river, if they are necessary. So too we must notneglect what is distant but must attend scrupulously to everything.Factionalism and the dominance of cliques are especially to be avoided. Evenif people of like mind come forward together, they ought not to form a factionby holding together for mutual advantage; instead, each man should do is duty.Theses are four ways in which one can overcome the hidden danger of a gradualslackening that always lurks in any time of peace. And that is how one findsthe middle way for action.",
        "19": "In times of prosperity it is important and above all to possess enoughgreatness of soul to bear with imperfect people. For in the hands of a greatmaster no material is unproductive; he can find use for everything. But thisgenerosity is by no means laxity or weakness. It is during times of prosperityespecially that we must always be ready to risk even dangerous undertakings,such as the crossing of a river, if they are necessary. So too we must notneglect what is distant but must attend scrupulously to everything.Factionalism and the dominance of cliques are especially to be avoided. Evenif people of like mind come forward together, they ought not to form a factionby holding together for mutual advantage; instead, each man should do is duty.Theses are four ways in which one can overcome the hidden danger of a gradualslackening that always lurks in any time of peace. And that is how one findsthe middle way for action.",
        "line_3": "Nine in the third place means:",
        "20": "Nine in the third place means:",
        "line_3_org": "No plain not followed by a slope. No going not followed by a return. He who remains persevering in danger Is without blame. Do not complain about this truth; Enjoy the good fortune you still possess.",
        "21": "No plain not followed by a slope. No going not followed by a return. He who remains persevering in danger Is without blame. Do not complain about this truth; Enjoy the good fortune you still possess.",
        "line_3_exp": "Everything on earth is subject to change. Prosperity is followed by decline:this is the eternal law on earth. Evil can indeed be held in check but notpermanently abolished. It always returns. This conviction might inductmelancholy, but it should not; it ought only to keep us from falling intoillusion when good fortune comes to us. If we continue mindful of the danger,we remain persevering and make no mistakes. As long as a man's inner natureremains stronger and richer than anything offered by external fortune, as longas he remains inwardly superior to fate, fortune will not desert him.",
        "22": "Everything on earth is subject to change. Prosperity is followed by decline:this is the eternal law on earth. Evil can indeed be held in check but notpermanently abolished. It always returns. This conviction might inductmelancholy, but it should not; it ought only to keep us from falling intoillusion when good fortune comes to us. If we continue mindful of the danger,we remain persevering and make no mistakes. As long as a man's inner natureremains stronger and richer than anything offered by external fortune, as longas he remains inwardly superior to fate, fortune will not desert him.",
        "line_4": "Six in the fourth place means:",
        "23": "Six in the fourth place means:",
        "line_4_org": "He flutters down, not boasting of his wealth, Together with his neighbor, Guileless and sincere.",
        "24": "He flutters down, not boasting of his wealth, Together with his neighbor, Guileless and sincere.",
        "line_4_exp": "In times of mutual confidence, people of high rank come in close contactwith the lowly quite simply and without boasting of their wealth. This is notdue to the force of circumstances but corresponds with their inmost sentiment.The approach is made quite spontaneously, because it is based on innerconviction.",
        "25": "In times of mutual confidence, people of high rank come in close contactwith the lowly quite simply and without boasting of their wealth. This is notdue to the force of circumstances but corresponds with their inmost sentiment.The approach is made quite spontaneously, because it is based on innerconviction.",
        "line_5": "Six in the fifth place means",
        "26": "Six in the fifth place means",
        "line_5_org": "The sovereign I Gives his daughter in marriage. And supreme good fortune.",
        "27": "The sovereign I Gives his daughter in marriage. And supreme good fortune.",
        "line_5_exp": "The sovereign I is T'ang the Completer. By his decree the imperialprincesses, although higher in rank than their husbands, had to obey them likeall other wives. Here too we are shown a truly modest union of high and lowthat brings happiness and blessings.",
        "28": "The sovereign I is T'ang the Completer. By his decree the imperialprincesses, although higher in rank than their husbands, had to obey them likeall other wives. Here too we are shown a truly modest union of high and lowthat brings happiness and blessings.",
        "line_6": "Six at the top means:",
        "29": "Six at the top means:",
        "line_6_org": "The wall falls back into the moat. Use no army now. Make your commands known within your own town. Perseverance brings humiliation.",
        "30": "The wall falls back into the moat. Use no army now. Make your commands known within your own town. Perseverance brings humiliation.",
        "line_6_exp": "The change alluded to in the middle of the hexagram has begun to take place.The wall of the town sinks back into the moat from which it was dug. The hourof doom is at hand. When matters have come to this pass, we should submit tofate and not try to stave it off by violent resistance. The one recourse leftus is to hold our own within our intimate circle. Should we persevere intrying to resist the evil in the usual way, our collapse would only be morecomplete, and humiliation would be the result.",
        "31": "The change alluded to in the middle of the hexagram has begun to take place.The wall of the town sinks back into the moat from which it was dug. The hourof doom is at hand. When matters have come to this pass, we should submit tofate and not try to stave it off by violent resistance. The one recourse leftus is to hold our own within our intimate circle. Should we persevere intrying to resist the evil in the usual way, our collapse would only be morecomplete, and humiliation would be the result."
    }
]